Bylaws of the Mizzou Space Program
University of Missouri - College of Engineering
















This is an internal MSP document. DO NOT submit this document to OrgSync as a constitution for AIAA or for SEDS.  
Article I - Purpose

The name of this organization must be Mizzou Space Program, on all official documents, memos, and communiques. 

Due to recent developments the Mizzou chapter of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and the Mizzou chapter of Students for the Exploration and Discovery of Space have decided to merge into one aerospace engineering focused student organization within the Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering. The decision to merge is unanimous amongst our officers and was made to consolidate our tools, equipment, raw materials, experience and expertise, and to simplify administrative and financial planning for both our officers and the Dean’s Office. The possibility of a new industry led rocketry research project given by Honeywell Federal Manufacturing & Technologies, has further encouraged us to present ourselves as a unified student-led group.   
AIAA has focused on participating in the Spaceport America Cup, an international rocketry competition where university engineering teams compete by launching rockets to target altitudes of 10,000 or 30,000ft. We’ve also been active in K-12 outreach by organizing and hosting Rocket Camp; a three day day-camp for 4-6th graders. At this event we teach the elementary principles of rocket physics through a water bottle rocket competition and the construction of small Estes rockets. We have also partnered with Mizzou SEDS in sponsoring our members rocket certification attempts through the Tripoli Rocketry Association. The objective of which is for an individual to build, fly, and recover their own personal rocket. We are also looking to develop an intraorganizational glider competition in order to teach basic workshop safety, tool usage, teach the aerodynamics of airplane flight, and encourage underclassman participation. Students will compete for spots on a leaderboard for total distance flown, creativity, etc. 
Since SEDS was founded, we have competed in the University Student Rocketry Competition (USRC). This is a dual-stage rocketry competition in which we compete in for the highest altitude with other SEDS chapters. In both the 2016 and 2017 competitions, we have received 1st place against 20+ other universities SEDS Chapters. We also attend our national organizations conference, Space Vision. This conference changes location each year and is set to be in San Diego, CA near the University of California- San Diego campus. This conference is also where the awards banquet for our competition is held. SEDS also participates in the Global Space Balloon Challenge (GSBC) in which they send a high altitude balloon to 80,000+ ft. in altitude with a scientific payload and cameras to document the spectacular flight.



MSP is recognized by the Organization Resource Group as two distinct national chapters, AIAA and SEDS, and is not concerned with how we structure ourselves within MAE department or the College of Engineering. This is useful to maintain two separate travel and general budgets through OrgSync.
Article II - Executive Board 

The Mizzou Space Program will hold elections for board positions on the first Wednesday of May for each 1 year term. Position turnover will occur on the close of the last day of the Spring semester. Term for all positions is 1 year. Term limits include: no consecutive terms on the board for any position, a member can alternate board and manager every year.

Foreword: All elected officers must satisfy these minimum requirements:
1.	They must be students or employees of the University of Missouri, in good academic standing, and in good standing with MSP.
2.	They must have a fundamental understanding of the flight mechanics, design, construction, and recovery of high-powered rockets.
3.	They must be Tripoli Level 1 certified at minimum.
4.	They must have a minimum of one academic year of active participation in MSP. 
a)	The President and Vice President must have experience in all facets of the organization (all MSP projects, competitions, the MSP internal structure, the duties of each position on the Executive Board, the duties of each project manager, and the budgeting and fundraising process.)
5.	They must submit a curriculum vitae detailing all prior experience relevant to their desired position. 

I.	President
A.	The President must preside over all regular meetings of the organization, to preside at all meetings of the Executive Board, and to serve as ex-officio member of all other committees. 
B.	The President is required to have a non-trivial level of experience with all MSP projects, competitions, the MSP internal structure, the duties of each position on the Executive Board, the duties of each project manager, and the budgeting and fundraising process 
C.	The President is required to have successfully certified Level 2 through the Tripoli Rocketry Association, unless overridden by the preceding executive board. 
1.	Level 3 certification is encouraged but not required.
D.	The President must communicate with and maintain good relations with all external entities and organizations apart from sponsors, donors, organizations, or individuals.
E.	The President must coordinate with SEDS USA and AIAA National.
F.	The President must be de jure President of the Mizzou Chapter of AIAA on all forms, files, and in all processes relating to the Organization Resource Group.
G.	The President must appoint the most suitable member of the General Staff to oversee the application of the 5S organization methodology to MSP operations. 
II.	Vice President
A.	The Vice President must assume the duties of the President in their absence and must perform such duties as are generally associated with the office or assigned by the President.
B.	The Vice President must oversee all project managers. The Vice President must become interim manager over a project if the original manager is found to be unfit or unwilling to complete the project. 
1.	The Vice President must remain Interim Project Manager until candidates for replacement are screened and a new Manager is elected.
C.	The Vice President must be de jure President of the Mizzou Chapter of SEDS on all forms, files, and in all processes relating to the Organization Resource Group.
D.	The Vice President must be responsible for attending SEDS Council of Chapter meetings.
1.	Failure to do so is grounds for immediate impeachment and subsequent removal from office.
E.	It is the Vice President’s duty to hold admin rights in and moderate all group chats on all platforms (GroupMe, Outlook Groups, Discord, etc.) This entails the following:
1.	Discouraging off topic discussion and spam in group chats labeled “Official” or “Announcement”
2.	Removing members who behave in a disruptive and/or toxic manner.
3.	Keeping group chats locked such that only the Vice President may add individuals to the chat or change the chat title, description, picture, rules, etc.
F.	The Vice President must have successfully certified Level 2 through the Tripoli Rocketry Association. 
1.	Level 3 certification is encouraged but not required.
III.	Treasurer
A.	The Treasurer must manage all budgeting and fundraising for MSP, must write all required financial reports, and is responsible for creating a detailed itemized budget complete with purchase justifications. 
B.	The Treasurer is responsible for keeping track of all project/competition expenses to ensure the project does not go over their allotted project budget.
C.	The Treasurer is responsible for overseeing any and all fundraising activities.
D.	The Treasurer must make all purchases as may authorized by the Executive Board., with the help of the Board of Managers.
E.	The President is required to have successfully certified Level 2 through the Tripoli Rocketry Association, unless overridden by the preceding executive board. 
1.	Level 3 certification is encouraged but not required.
IV.	Secretary
A.	The Secretary must record the minutes of all general and executive meetings of MSP and shall be custodian of all records not specifically assigned to other executive positions. 
B.	The Secretary must conduct the correspondence of MSP and the Executive Board through the official MSP email account: muengrmsp@missouri.edu
C.	The Secretary must inform members of the times and locations of general meetings.
1.	The Secretary must do so in a timely and consistent manner. 
D.	The Secretary must maintain a spreadsheet of all active members and their contact information. 
E.	The Secretary must manage all social media accounts and must document projects/competitions on these accounts.
F.	The Secretary must collect the class and work schedules of all staff members in the first week of each semester.
G.	The Secretary is required to have successfully certified Level 2 through the Tripoli Rocketry Association, unless overridden by the preceding executive board. 
1.	Level 3 certification is encouraged but not required.
V.	Removal From Office
A.	Executive officers and board representatives may be removed from office by voluntary resignation, by majority vote of the General Staff, upon three unexcused absences in a span of one month from regular and/or Executive Board meetings, as determined by the Executive Board, or by a majority vote by the active membership. 
1.	Grounds for removal include the inadequate fulfillment of duties or the violation of regulations described in the Guidelines for Recognized Student Organizations, University policies or any federal, state, or local laws.
B.	If an officer is unable or unwilling to perform his/her duties, the President may appoint a member to serve in their seat for the remainder of their term of office. They will be titled “Interim Officer” until the next election. Failure to participate will result in removal from office and the election/appointment of an interim officer. There must also be no repeat terms on the Executive Board for the same position or for consecutive years. All privileges are lost upon the end of the term. Former officers have the rights, authority, and power of standard members. Former officers must forfeit any and all key access to workshop.
 
Article III – Project Managers

I.	Project Managers
A.	Project Managers must only be appointed after screening by the Executive Board. 
B.	Project managers must not concurrently hold more than one Project Manager position. 
C.	Executive Board members must respect the sovereignty of the Project Managers. No single Executive Board member may veto a Project Manager’s decision. 
D.	Failure to complete projects, refusal to participate, and toxic behavior will result in removal from the position. 
E.	To be considered eligible for appointment, prospective Project Managers must satisfy the following criteria.
1.	They must be students or employees of the University of Missouri, in good academic standing, and in good standing with MSP.
2.	They must hold a Tripoli Level 1 certification at minimum.
a)	The Tripoli Project Manager must hold a Level 2 certification through the TRA unless exempted by the Executive Board.
(1)	Level 3 certification is heavily recommended but not required.
b)	The Tripoli Project Manager must have a fundamental understanding of the following topics
(1)	Un-guided (dummy) rocket flight mechanics.
(2)	The TRA certification requirements for Level 1, 2, & 3.
(3)	The pros, cons, and costs, and time requirements (if applicable) of every composite, adhesive, resin, filler, or other construction or raw material regularly used and/or purchased by MSP.
(4)	The skilled and intelligent utilization of all MSP tools powered or otherwise.
3.	They must have a minimum of one academic year of active participation in MSP and the project they wish to manage.
4.	They must submit a curriculum vitae detailing all prior experience relevant to their desired position. 
F.	Project Managers must make and maintain a Gantt Chart of their respective project before any work is done or any purchases are made. This chart must be presented to the Executive Board and must be approved by majority vote before work on the project may begin.
1.	Copies of all Gantt Chart submissions and subsequent revisions must be retained by the Executive Board in perpetuity for future reference, regardless of approval status
G.	After screening and appointment, all Project Managers must meet with the Executive Board to outline the deadlines and finances of all MSP projects. 
1.	This task must be completed by the General Staff before the CoE Budget Proposal is due in the fall semester.
H.	Current Projects
1.	University Student Rocketry Competition - SEDS national Multi-stage rocketry competition
2.	Spaceport America Cup - IREC International 10k, 30k Rocketry competition
3.	Global Space Balloon Challenge - International High Altitude Balloon Competition
4.	Tripoli Certifications - Tripoli Rocketry Certification Rockets for individual members, major recruitment and training tool.
5.	Motor Research - Propellant and Hardware testing/research for rocket motors, useful for both USRC and SAC projects
II.	Outreach Chair
A.	The Outreach Chair must recruit new members through college events, informational meetings, and various other efforts.
B.	The Outreach Chair must coordinate with the Office of Diversity and Inclusion and other student organizations on various projects, including professional development events and inter-organization competitions and challenges. 
C.	The Outreach Chair must be the main organizer of  K-12 and high school outreach events. 
III.	6S Lead
A.	This position may be held concurrently with another executive or project manager position. 
B.	The 5S Chair must be the most suitable member of the General Staff to oversee the application of the 5S organization methodology to MSP operations. 
C.	To qualify for this position, the individual in question must possess a fundamental understanding of how to organize a work space for efficiency and effectiveness by identifying and storing the items used, maintaining the area and items, and sustaining the new order.
IV.	Removal From Office
A.	Executive officers and board representatives may be removed from office by voluntary resignation, by majority vote of the General Staff, upon three unexcused absences in a span of one month from regular and/or Executive Board meetings, as determined by the Executive Board, or by a majority vote by the active membership. 
1.	Grounds for removal include the inadequate fulfillment of aforementioned duties or the violation of regulations described in the Guidelines for Recognized Student Organizations, University policies or any federal, state or local laws.
B.	If an officer is unable or unwilling to perform his/her duties, the President may appoint a member to serve in their seat for the remainder of their term of office. They will be titled “Interim Officer” until the next election. Failure to participate will result in removal from office and the election/appointment of an interim officer. There must also be no repeat terms on the Executive Board for the same position or for consecutive years. All privileges are lost upon the end of the term. Former officers have the rights, authority, and power of standard members. Former officers must forfeit any and all key access to workshop.
C.	If a project manager is removed from their position unjustly or inappropriately, the Executive Board may vote to reinstate said project manager. After this election, there must be a review by the exec board of the offending President/Vice President.
V.	Meetings
A.	Executive Board Meetings
1.	The Executive Board will meet when called by the President
2.	A majority of the Executive Board must be at a meeting for a vote or decision to be made.
3.	Meetings of the Executive Board weekly during the Fall and Spring semesters, as designated by the President. 
B.	General Meetings
1.	The entire active membership will be called to meeting at least once a month during the fall and winter semesters on Wednesday at 6:00 pm (when this time does not conflict with scheduled faculty meetings or events) as designated by the President.
C.	Emergency meetings may be called by the Executive Board at the request of any executive member.
 
Article IV – Faculty Adviser

I.	Adviser 
A.	The organization must select one faculty or staff member (at least 75% FTE) to serve as Adviser.
B.	The current Advisers for MSP are Craig Kluever and Ming Xin, full time faculty members employed by the MAE department of the CoE.
C.	The faculty Adviser is to act as a liaison between student members and the MU College of Engineering, as well as associated faculty. 
D.	The Adviser is also to facilitate financial transparency, event planning, and inter-school communication.
E.	Removing an Adviser entails the same process as impeaching an officer of the organization. Grounds for removal include the inadequate fulfillment of aforementioned duties or the violation of regulations described in the Guidelines for Recognized Student Organizations, University policies, or any federal, state or local laws.


 
Article V – Treasury

I.	The Treasurer must track spending and project expenses. 
A.	There must be a meeting of the Executive Board and all project managers every week to discuss all budgets.
B.	Discussion and scheduling of upcoming purchases must take place at these meetings.
C.	The Treasurer must maintain an itemized spreadsheet of all account debits and credits. 
II.	Each project manager must present a detailed and justified project budget to the Executive Board at the first General Staff meeting of each semester.
A.	If a budget is deemed unacceptable the General Staff must work together towards a solution. 
III.	Bookings for hotels and flights must be made by the CoE Finance office unless a member or members are paying for their own travel.
IV.	The Treasurer is responsible for working directly with all members of the General Staff to complete order forms and make purchases
A.	The Treasurer must retain digital copies of all order forms made whether the order is submitted or not.
B.	Purchase receipts must be copied by the Treasurer before being handed over to the finance support staff in Lafferre Hall.
C.	No further purchases may be made by project managers until all receipts from that projects previous purchase(s) are turned into the Treasurer and the current budget total is updated.
D.	Orders greater than $750 must be approved by a majority vote of the Executive Board.
1.	No purchases greater than this may be made without first informing the entirety of the General Staff. 
2.	Failure to do so can be considered misappropriation of MSP funds and is grounds for immediate impeachment and subsequent removal from office.
E.	Orders greater than $2000 must be approved by a majority vote of the General Staff.
1.	No purchases in this range may be made without first informing the entirety of the General Staff and the Adviser. Failure to do so can be considered misappropriation of MSP funds and is grounds for immediate impeachment and subsequent removal from office.
F.	No member of MSP may make any purchase unless they currently hold the position of President, Vice President, Treasurer, or Project Manager.
G.	The MSP Adviser may veto any purchase if they feel that it is not sufficiently justified. 
H.	No individual member of the General Staff has the authority to veto a purchase or otherwise make any unilateral decision with regards to the budget, order forms, or purchasing. 
1.	Doing so is grounds for immediate impeachment and subsequent removal from office.
V.	Previous board members lose access to the MSP accounts, the authority to vote on purchases, make purchases, and place orders, at the close of the last day of their term.
VI.	Income generated through MSP fundraising may be spent on all MSP needs, projects, or otherwise. 
A.	Any income by fundraising for a specific project may only be spent on that project.
B.	Misappropriating funds collected for a specific project is grounds for immediate impeachment and subsequent removal from office.
VII.	Income generated by fundraising or by sponsorship must be recorded by the Treasurer and the current budget total must be updated immediately.
VIII.	No purchases may be made without informing the entirety of the Executive Board
IX.	The Treasurer is responsible for writing any budgets and grant proposals on behalf of MSP.
A.	SEDS national grants are available once per semester. It is the Vice Presidents job to communicate this information to the Treasurer.
X.	The misappropriation of any MSP funding by any member of MSP, including the Executive Board, the Board of Managers, or the Adviser, is grounds for immediate impeachment and subsequent removal from office.
XI.	Evidence of misappropriation must be collected in triplicate.
1.	One copy must be submitted to the CoE Financial Support Staff
2.	One copy must be submitted to the Dean’s Office
3.	One copy must be retained by MSP in perpetuity. 


 
Article VI - Attendance Policy

Attendance will be recorded for all members at each meeting. This attendance record will be used by the officers to determine who is eligible for conferences, competition, and any project related funding or expenses.

All officers are required to attend meetings. Failure to attend or participate in competitions/projects can result in the consideration of replacement.

65% attendance is required to run for an officer position

75% attendance is required for officers and project managers. Failure to reach this attendance within reasonable time or reasonable excuse will bring replacement into question

Attendance to any conferences external to the University of Missouri must only be approved under MSP funding if attendance and any other requirements are met. MSP is not responsible for providing any funding for travel unless decided by the Executive Board. Per Diems, such as food and drink,  is forbidden from being reimbursed by MSP during travel. The following attendance and extra requirements must be added to the list of conferences below:
	
	Space Vision: 75% attendance required, Level 1 Tripoli Certification, Participation in Rocket Camp or another K-12 event hosted by MSP, member must be prepared to pay for all travel necessities associated with traveling to a conference.



Article VII - Amendments to the ByLaws

Any member may present amendments to the ByLaws of MSP at a general or executive meeting. The Executive Board may vote on said amendment and will be added with a majority vote. The amendment may also be added by 4/5ths majority at any general meeting.  
Article VIII - Non-Discrimination
This organization shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, ancestry, religion, sex, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, age, disability, protected veteran status, and any other status protected by applicable state or federal law.

 



 
Graduated Officers


Member	Email	Phone Number
Alex Thornton	abt24c@mail.missouri.edu	417-231-3848
Sam Reid	samuel.reid@mail.missouri.edu	573-760-4714
Cale Crawford	ccfmf@mail.missouri.edu	
		

